\section{Discussion}\label{sec:Discussion}


We have found that three models offer plausible explanations for the
\spock events: these transients are due to a RN  

 Our preferred explanation for the \spock events is
that we have observed two distinct eruptive episodes from a massive
LBV star.  The light curve shape is consistent with rapid LBV
eruptions seen in systems such as SN 2009ip and NGC 3432-LBV1.  The
peak luminosity and recurrence timescale are also within the bounds of
what has been observed from nearby LBVs.  The \spock episodes may have
been among the fastest and most luminous of any rapid LBV events yet
observed. However, no other rapid LBV outbursts have yet been observed
with such a high cadence, so the detailed light curve shape can not be
rigorously compared against other events.  In this scenario, the
\spock LBV system would most likely have exhibited multiple eruptions
over the last few years, but most of them were missed, as they landed
within the large gaps of the \HST Frontier Fields imaging program.

We speculate that the very luminous and very fast \spock transients
may be driven by extreme mass eruption events or an extreme form of
stellar pulsation.  Both of these mechanisms are likely to occur in
LBV progenitor stars, but we do not have a robust model for precisely
how LBV eruptions are generated. This is a topic in need of
significant theoretical work, with the end goal being a comprehensive
physical model that accommodates both the \etacar-like great eruptions
and the S Dor-type variation of LBVs.  The \spock events are extreme
in several dimensions, and will only add to this theoretical
challenge.

