\section{Results}\label{sec:Results}

The two \spock\ events exhibited very similar light curves, as shown
in Figure \ref{fig:LightCurves}.  Both events reached a peak
luminosity of $\sim$0.08 \microjansky, with the entire observable rise
and fall occurring in $<20$ days.  The host galaxy for both \spock
events is at a redshift of $z=1.0054\pm0.0002$ (see Methods section
\ref{sec:Spectroscopy}).  After dividing the observed timescales by
($1+z$) to correct for cosmic time dilation, we see that both events
lasted $<$10 days in the rest frame.

To interpret the observed light curves and the timing of these two
events, we use six independently constructed cluster mass models to
determine the effects of gravitational lensing from the
MACS0416 cluster.  As reported in
Table~\ref{tab:LensModelPredictions}, these lens models predict
absolute magnification values between about $\mu=10$ and $\mu=100$ for
both events.  This wide range is due primarily to the close proximity
of the \spock\ events to the lensing critical curve for sources at
$z=1$.  Note that the magnifications for \spockone\ and \spocktwo\ are
highly correlated.  A variation of a given lens model that moves the
critical curve closer to the position of \spockone\ would drive the
magnification of that event much higher (toward $\mu_1\sim100$), but
that would also have the effect of moving the critical curve farther
from \spocktwo\, which would necessarily drive its magnification
downward (toward $\mu_2\sim10$). From each model we also extract two
time delay predictions, given in Table~\ref{tab:LensModelPredictions}.
We report all time delays relative to the \spockone\ event, which
appeared in January 2014 in host image 11.2.

%\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.5}
\begin{deluxetable}{lccccc}\label{tab:LensModelPredictions}
\tablewidth{\linewidth} \tablecolumns{6} \tablecaption{Lens model
  predictions for time delays and
  magnifications. \label{tab:LensModelPredictions}} 
\tablehead{
  \colhead{Model} & \colhead{$\Delta t_{\rm NW:SE}$} & \colhead{$\Delta
    t_{\rm NW:11.3}$} & \colhead{$\mu_1$} & \colhead{$\mu_2$} &
  \colhead{$\mu_3$}\\ \colhead{} & \colhead{(days)} &
  \colhead{(years)} & \colhead{} & \colhead{} & \colhead{} }
\startdata
Bradac & 42 $^{+13}_{-9}$ & -3.7 $\pm0.3$ & 90 $^{+61}_{-27}$ & 32 $^{+8}_{-10}$ & 3.6 $^{+0.2}_{-0.5}$\\[0.5em]
Bradac-v3 & \nodata & \nodata & 38 $\pm8$ & 12.8 $\pm0.8$ & 2.9 $\pm0.1$\\[0.5em]
Diego  & -48$\pm$10 & 0.8 & 35$\pm$20 & 30$\pm$20 &\\[0.5em]
Jauzac-A & 29 $\pm3$ & -2.2 $\pm0.1$ & 36 $^{+4}_{-3}$ & 17 $\pm1$ & 4.5 $\pm0.1$\\[0.5em]
Jauzac-B & 28 $^{+5}_{-7}$ & -2.2 $^{+0.1}_{-0.2}$ & 37 $\pm3$ & 18 $\pm2$ & 4.6 $\pm0.1$\\[0.5em]
Jauzac-C & 2.5 $^{+0.8}_{-1.0}$ & -3.0 $\pm0.1$ & 37 $^{+4}_{-3}$ & 16 $^{+1}_{-2}$ & 3.2 $\pm0.05$\\[0.5em]
Kawamata & 4.1 $^{+5.5}_{-3.4}$ & -5.0 $^{+0.5}_{-0.6}$ & 29 $^{+43}_{-10}$ & 84 $^{+103}_{-38}$ & 3.0 $^{+0.2}_{-0.2}$\\[0.5em]
Williams & -10 $^{+1}_{-7}$ & -2.5 $^{+1.0}_{-3.1}$ & 13 $^{+11}_{-6}$ & 12 $^{+9}_{-5}$ & 3.1 $^{+2.2}_{-0.9}$\\[0.5em]
Zitrin & 42 $^{+13}_{-9}$ & -3.7 $\pm0.3$ & 90 $^{+61}_{-27}$ & 32 $^{+8}_{-10}$ & 3.6 $^{+0.2}_{-0.5}$\\
\enddata
\tablecomments{
Each lens model is identified by the last name of the lead modeler or
the principal investigator of the modeling team. Time delays give the predicted delay relative to an
  appearance in the NW host image, 11.2. Positive (negative) values indicate the
  NW image is the leading (trailing) image of the pair.
}
\end{deluxetable}
%\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.}


\subsection{Ruling Out Common Astrophysical Transients}

A useful starting point for classification of optical transient events
is to examine their position in the phase space of peak luminosity
versus decline time \citep[see, e.g.,][]{Kulkarni:2007}. We infer a
range of plausible luminosities and decline times for the \spock
events using linear interpolation of the observed photometry, with
corrections for the luminosity distance (assuming a standard \LCDM
cosmology), and accommodating the range of viable lensing
magnifications ($10<\mu<100$) derived from the cluster lens models
(Methods, \ref{sec:LightCurves}). This results in two-dimensional
constraints on \Lpk and the decline timescale \t2 (the time over which
the transient declines by 2 magnitudes). The \spockone and
\spocktwo events are largely consistent with each other, and if both
events are representative of a single system (or a homogeneous class)
then the most likely peak luminosity and decline time (the region with
the most overlap) would be $L_{\rm pk}\sim10^{41}$ ergs/s and
$t_2\sim1.8$ days.

As shown in Figure~\ref{fig:PeakLuminosityDeclineTime}, the relatively
low peak luminosities and the very rapid rise and fall of both \spock
light curves are incompatible with all of the common categories of
stellar explosions. This includes the thermonuclear explosions of
white dwarf stars as Type Ia SNe, and the heterogeneous class of
core collapse SNe.  Less well-understood classes are also
ruled out, such as Superluminous SNe \citep{Gal-Yam:2012,Arcavi:2016},
Type Iax SNe \citep{Foley:2013a}, fast optical transients
\citep{Drout:2014}, Ca-rich SNe
\citep{Filippenko:2003,Perets:2011,Kasliwal:2012}, and Luminous Red
Novae \citep[also called intermediate luminosity red
  transients;][]{Munari:2002,Kulkarni:2007,Kasliwal:2011b}.

The SN-like transients that come closest to matching the observed
characteristics of the two \spock events are the ``kilonova'' class
(also called a ``macronova'' or ``mini-supernova'') and the ``.Ia''
class.  Kilonovae are a theorized category of optical transients that
may be generated by the merger of a neutron star (NS) binary. Such a
NS+NS merger can drive a relativistic jet that may be observed as a
Gamma Ray Burst (GRB) and would emit gravitational waves.  These may
also be accompanied by a very rapid optical light curve (the kilonova
component) that is driven by the radioactive decay of r-process
elements in the ejecta \citep{Li:1998,Kulkarni:2005}.  The .Ia class
is due to He shell explosions that are expected to arise from AM Canum
Venaticorum (AM CVn) binary star systems undergoing He mass transfer
onto a white dwarf primary star \citep{Warner:1995,
  Nelemans:2005,Bildsten:2007}.  The \spock light curves exhibited a
slower rise time than is expected for a kilonova event
\citep[e.g.,][]{Metzger:2010,Barnes:2013,Kasen:2015}, and a faster
decline time than is anticipated for a .Ia event
\citep[e.g.,][]{Shen:2010}.  Furthermore, the \spock observations are not
well matched by the few examples of observed kilonova candidates
\citep{Perley:2009,Tanvir:2013} or .Ia candidates
\citep{Kasliwal:2010, Perets:2010, Poznanski:2010}.  However, there is
enough uncertainty about the diversity of light curves generated by
these rare explosions that we can not dismiss these models on the
basis of light curve characteristics alone.

In addition to the incompatibility of the light curve shape, another
reason to exclude all of the above SN-like transient models is the
problem of the apparent recurrence of the \spock events.  For all of
the catastrophic stellar explosions discussed so far, we do not expect
to see repeated transient events.  The SN and kilonova progenitor
systems are completely disrupted at explosion.  For .Ia events, even
if we allow that an AM CVn system could produce repeated He shell
flashes of similar luminosity, the period of recurrence would be of
order $10^5$ yr, making these effectively non-recurrent sources.
Thus, the only way to reconcile these cataclysmic explosion models
with the two observed \spock events is to either (a) assert that the
two events are two images of the same explosion, appearing to us
separately only because of a gravitational lensing time delay
\citep[as was the case for the 5 images of SN
  Refsdal][]{Kelly:2015a,Kelly:2016}, or (b) invoke a highly
serendipitous occurrence of two unrelated peculiar explosions in the
same host galaxy in the same year.

As shown in Table~\ref{tab:LensModelPredictions}, none of the MACS0416
lens models predict an 8 month time delay between appearances in host
galaxy images 11.1 and 11.2.  To accept the first scenario (a) of a
time-delayed single explosion, we would have to assume that a large
systematic bias is similarly affecting all of the lens models.  While
we cannot rule out such a bias, the consistency of the lens modeling
makes this scenario less tenable.

For the latter scenario (b) of two unrelated explosions, it is
difficult to quantitatively assess the likelihood of such an
occurrence, as there are no measured rates of .Ia or kilonovae.  In a
study of very fast optical transients with the Pan-STARRS1 survey,
\citet{Berger:2013b} derived a limit of $\lesssim0.05$ Mpc$^{-3}$
yr$^{-1}$ for transients reaching $M\approx -14$ mag on a timescale of
$\sim$1 day.  This limit, though several orders of magnitude higher
than the constraints on novae or SNe, is sufficient to make it
exceedingly unlikely that two unrelated fast optical transients would
appear in the same galaxy in a single year.  Furthermore, we have
observed no other transient events with similar luminosities and light
curve shapes in high-cadence surveys of 5 other Frontier Fields
clusters. Indeed, all other transients detected in the primary HFF
survey have been fully consistent with normal SNe.  Thus, we have no
evidence to suggest that transients of this kind are common enough to
be observed twice in a single galaxy in a single year.

%\subsection{Non-explosive Astrophysical Transients}\label{sec:OtherTransients}

There are several categories of astrophysical transients that are not
related to stellar explosions, and we find that these models also cannot
accommodate the observations of the \spock transients.  We may first
dismiss any of the category of {\it periodic} sources (e.g. Cepheids,
RR Lyrae, or Mira variables) that exhibit regular changes in flux due
to pulsations of the stellar photosphere. These variable stars do not
exhibit sharp, isolated transient episodes that could match the \spock
light curve shapes. We can also rule out active galactic nuclei (AGN),
in which brief transient episodes (a few days in duration) may be
observed from X-ray to infrared wavelengths
\citep[e.g.][]{Gaskell:2003}, principally due to the quiescence of the
\spock sources between the two observed episodes and the absence of
any of the broad emission lines that are often (though not always)
observed in AGN. Stellar flares provide another very common source for
optical transient events, but the total energy released by even the
most extreme stellar flare falls far short of the observed energy
release from the \spock transients \citep{Balona:2012,Karoff:2016} .

Thus, to accommodate all of the observations of the \spock events, we
have three plausible models left to us: these transients are from a
single Luminous Blue Variable (LBV), a single recurrent nova (RN), or
a pair of extreme microlensing events (i.e., stellar caustic
crossings).

\subsection{Luminous Blue Variable}

The transient sources categorized as LBVs are the result of eruptions
or explosive episodes from massive stars ($>10$\Msun).  The class is
exemplified by prototypical examples such as P Cygni, $\eta$ Carinae
(\etacar), and S Doradus (S-Dor) \citep[for recent overviews of the
  LBV class, see][]{Smith:2011b, Kochanek:2012}.  Although most giant
LBV eruptions have been observed to last much longer than the \spock
events \citep{Smith:2011b}, some LBVs have exhibited repeated rapid
outbursts that are broadly consistent with the very fast \spock light
curves. Because of this commonly seen stochastic variability, the LBV
scenario does not have any trouble accounting for the \spock events as
two separate episodes.

Two well-studied LBVs that provide a plausible match to the observed
\spock events are ``SN 2009ip'' \citep{Maza:2009} and NGC3432-LBV1
\citep{Pastorello:2010}.  Both exhibited multiple brief transient
episodes over a span of months to years \citep[e.g.,][]{Miller:2009,
  Li:2009, Berger:2009, Drake:2010, Pastorello:2010}.  Unfortunately,
for these outbursts we have only upper limits on the decline
timescale, $t_2$, due to the relatively sparse photometric sampling.
Figure~\ref{fig:PeakLuminosityDeclineTime}b shows that both \spock
events are consistent with the observed luminosities and decline times
of these fast and bright LBV outbursts -- though the \spock events
would be among the most rapid and most luminous LBV eruptions ever
seen.

In addition to those relatively short and very bright giant eruptions,
most LBVs also commonly exhibit a slower underlying variability. P
Cygni and \etaCar, for example, slowly rose and fell in brightness by
$\sim$1 to 2 mag over a timespan of several years before and after
their historic giant eruptions.  Such variation has not been detected
at the \spock locations. Nevertheless, given the broad
range of light curve behaviors seen in LBV events, we can not reject
this class as a possible explanation for the \spock system.

To explore some of the physical implications of an LBV
classification for the two \spock events, we first make a rough
estimate of the total radiated energy, which can be computed using the
decline timescale $t_2$ and the peak luminosity $L_{\rm pk}$ following
\citet{Smith:2011b}:

\begin{equation}
  \label{eqn:Erad}
  E_{\rm rad} = \zeta \t2 \Lpk,
\end{equation}

\noindent where $\zeta$ is a factor of order unity that depends on the
precise shape of the light curve.\footnote{Note that
  \citet{Smith:2011b} used $t_{1.5}$ instead of $t_2$, which amounts
  to a different light curve shape term, $\zeta$.}  Adopting
\Lpk$\sim10^{41}$ erg s$^{-1}$ and \t2$\sim$2 days (as shown in
Figure~\ref{fig:PeakLuminosityDeclineTime}), we find that the total
radiated energy isi $E_{\rm rad}\sim10^{46}$ erg.  A realistic range
for this estimate would span $10^{44}<E_{\rm rad}<10^{47}$ erg, due to
uncertainties in the magnification, bolometric luminosity correction,
decline time, and light curve shape (in roughly that order of
importance). These uncertainties notwithstanding, our crude estimate
does fall well within the range of plausible values for the total
radiated energy of a major LBV outburst.

The precise physical mechanism for LBV outbursts is still not fully
understood \citep[e.g.][]{Smith:2006,Woosley:2007,Dessart:2010}, but
the canonical model is that LBV transient events are the optical
signature of an eruptive mass loss episode.  If this applies to the
\spock transients, then the energy budget must also include a
substantial amount of kinetic energy imparted to the ejected gas
shell. Without spectroscopic information from the \spock transients we
can not place any realistic estimate on the kinetic
energy. Nevertheless, we can take the radiated energy as a rough lower
limit on the total energy release and consider what timescale would be
required for a massive star to build up that amount of energy (see
Methods \ref{sec:LBVbuildup}). This approach assumes that the energy
released in an LBV eruption is generated slowly in the stellar
interior and is in some way ``bottled up'' by the stellar envelope,
before being released in a rapid mass ejection.  By assuming that the
build-up timescale is comparable to the rest-frame time between the
two observed events, we estimate a quiescent luminosity of $L_{\rm
  qui}\sim10^{39.5}$ erg s${-1}$ ($M_V\sim-10$).  This value is fully
consistent with the expected range for LBV progenitor stars (e.g.,
\etacar has $M_V\sim-12$ and the faintest known LBV progenitors such
as SN 2010dn have $M_V\sim-6$).


\subsection{Recurrent Nova}\label{sec:RNe}

Novae occur in binary systems in which a white dwarf star accretes
matter from a less massive companion, leading to a burst of nuclear
fusion in the accreted surface layer that causes the white dwarf to
brighten by several orders of magnitude, but does not completely
disrupt the star. In a recurrent nova (RN) system, the mass transfer
from the companion to the white dwarf restarts after the explosion, so
the cycle may begin again and repeat after a period of months or
years.

The light curves of many RN systems in the Milky Way are similar in
shape to the \spock episodes, exhibiting a sharp rise ($<10$ days in
the rest-frame) and a similarly rapid decline (see Methods section
\ref{sec:RNLightCurves}).  This is reflected in
Figure~\ref{fig:PeakLuminosityDeclineTime}, where novae are
represented by a grey band that traces the empirical constraints on
the maximum magnitude - rate of decline (MMRD) relation for classical
novae \citep{DellaValle:1995, Downes:2000, Shafter:2011,
  Kasliwal:2011a}.

The RN model can provide a natural explanation for having two separate
explosions that are coincident in space but not in time, as the two
observed \spock events can be attributed to two distinct eruptions
from the same RN system.  However, the recurrence timescale for \spock
in the rest-frame is $120\pm30$ days, which would be a singularly
rapid recurrence period for a RN system.  All RNe in our own galaxy
have recurrence timescales ranging from 15--80 years
\citep{Schaefer:2010}.  The fastest measured recurrence timescale
belongs to the Andromeda galaxy nova M31N 2008a-12, which has
exhibited a new outburst every year from 2009-2015
\citep{Tang:2014,Darnley:2014,Darnley:2015,Henze:2015,Henze:2015a}. Although
this M31 record-holder demonstrates that very rapid recurrence is
possible, classifying \spock as a RN would still require a very
extreme mass transfer rate to accommodate the $<1$ year recurrence.

Another major concern with the RN hypothesis is that the
two \spock events are substantially brighter than all known novae --
perhaps by as much as 2 orders of magnitude.  One might attempt to
reconcile the \spock luminosity more comfortably with the nova class
by assuming a significant lensing magnification for one of the two
events. This would drive down the intrinsic luminosity, perhaps to
$\sim10^{40}$ erg s${-1}$, on the edge of the nova region.  However,
this assumption implicitly moves the lensing critical curve to be
closer to the \spock event in question.  That pulls the critical curve
away from the other \spock position, which makes that second event
{\it more inconsistent} with observed nova peak luminosities.  

The combination of a rapid recurrence timescale and unusually high
peak luminosity for the \spock events is at odds with theoretical
expectations and empirical constraints for RNe (see Methods section
\ref{sec:RNLuminosityRecurrence}). Although the RN model is not
strictly ruled out, we can deduce that if the \spock transients are
caused by a single RN system, then that progenitor system would be the
most extreme white dwarf binary system yet known.


\subsection{Microlensing}\label{sec:MicroLensing}

In the presence of strong gravitational lensing it is possible to
generate a transient event from lensing effects alone.  In this case
the background source has a steady luminosity but the relative motion
of the source, lens, and observer causes the magnification of that
source (and therefore the apparent brightness) to change rapidly with
time.  An isolated strong lensing event with a rapid timescale can be
generated when a background star crosses over a lensing critical
curve.  In the case of a star crossing the caustic of a smooth lensing
potential, the amplification of the source flux would increase
(decrease) with a characteristic $t^{-1/2}$ profile as it moves toward
(away from) the caustic. This slowly evolving light curve transitions
to a very sharp decline (rise) when the star has moved to the other
side of the caustic \citep{Schneider:1986, MiraldaEscude:1991}.  With
a more complex lens comprising many compact objects, the light curve
would exhibit a superposition of many such sharp peaks
\citep{Lewis:1993}. The peculiar transient {\it Icarus}, observed in
another of the Hubble Frontier Fields, has been proposed as the first
observed example of such a stellar caustic crossing event (P. Kelly et
al., in prep).

The characteristic timescale of such a caustic crossing event would be
on the order of hours or days (see Methods section
\ref{sec:Microlensing}), which is in the vicinity of the timescales
observed for the \spock events.  However, if we apply this scenario to
the MACS0416 field, we can not plausibly generate two events with
similar decay timescales at distinct locations on the sky.  This is
because a caustic-crossing transient event must necessarily appear at
the location of the lensing critical curve.  The consensus from our 6
lens models is that there is only a single critical curve passing
roughly mid-way between the two observed \spock locations.

The lens models do, however, allow for multiple critical curves
subtending the \spock host galaxy, so that instead of just two host
images (11.1 and 11.2), the lensed galaxy arc is made up of three or
more images of the host.  By tuning the assumed masses of cluster
galaxies near the \spock host, those multiple critical curves can be
made to cross very close to the positions of the two \spock transient
events. This alternative lensing scenario is disfavored by the fact
that the host galaxy arc does not exhibit any gaps or bright
features---as would be expected if it is composed of more than two
images.  Setting aside this qualitative incompatibility, it would
still be impossible to have a single star in the source plane be
responsible for both of the \spock events. The angular separation of
the two \spock events corresponds to a physical separation of many
tens of parsecs in the source plane, and a star could not traverse
that distance in the $\sim$120 rest-frame days that separate the two
\spock events.  Thus, even if multiple critical curves pass very near
the \spock events, a stellar caustic crossing could account for at
best only one of the \spock events, not both.

Adopting a lens model with two critical curves crossing the spock host
could, however, make the RN hypothesis more plausible. With separate
critical curves close to the \spock events, the inferred lensing
magnification would simultaneously increase for both \spockone and
\spocktwo, thereby bringing the intrinsic luminosity of both events
into line with the expectations for a rapidly recurrent nova.  
